1	a	Discuss the traditional file processing system. (10 Marks)
	b	Give five advantages the database approach has over file processing systems. (10 Marks)
	c	Give a brief historical account of the evolution of Database systems. (5 Marks)
ANSWER
1a  
      A File processing system in its simplest form consists of a program that stores/reads its data from a flat file.They are characterized by very tight coupling between program and data making them inflexible to changes in the underlying data structure. Data redundancy is also a negative feature of this system since different programs cannot share data and hence have to rely on compatible/readable copies of the same data 
1b    
      i. A well configured and normalized database eliminates redundancy
      ii.Program-data independence is a desirable feature of DBMS while in a typical file processing system program design must factor in the underlying data  structure
	  iii.Data consistency is a defining feature of Database Management Systems while this feature is almost difficult to maintain in a traditional FPS since data operations here are carried out independently on data that may exist in different formats cross multiple programs.
	  iv.DBMS scale well with increase in data volumes while FPS are heavily impacted as data need increases due to the need to duplicate these volumes across different programs
	  v.Ease of maintenance since all data management operations are directed at a single source rather than multiple sources.
1c.
      Today's complex data management systems started out as flat files that were used to store application data.This storage system were characterized by severe limitations which included high maintenance cost, insecurity, data duplication and they required extensive programming in third generation languages such as PASCAL,COBOL etc. 
      Systems based on the Hierarchical data model came into the scene in the early 70's and were dominant right through to the early 80's.This model organizes files in a parent/child manner where each child must have at least a parent. They brought efficiency to search operations but were very difficult to implement
      Network data models which were developed in parallel with Hierarchical models standardized in the early 70's and introduced desirable features as data integrity,independence and ease of access. In this architecture each file is either an owner or member.A member could belong to more than one owner 	  

2	a	Name the five phases of the traditional systems development life cycle, and explain the purpose and the deliverables of each phase.  (10 Marks)
	b	Explain the differences between user views, a conceptual schema, and an internal schema as different views of the same database. (10 Marks)
ANSWER
2a     see table
2b		USER VIEW: A user view is a restricted/incomplete perspective of a database content intended to facilitate a particular purpose or user activity.In addition to the objective of giving access to only what is relevant/needed for user operations, it is a security device aimed at protecting the database from reckless user activities
		INTERNAL VIEW: A low-level representation of the database that describes the physical storage structure of the database i.e. it tells us what data is stored and how it is organized into tables, rows and columns
		CONCEPTUAL VIEW: This view describes the whole structure of the database to a wider audience of stakeholders hiding details such as physical storage structures but instead focusing on the description of datatypes, entities and relationships etc.The very popular ERD diagram is a very good example of this view
4a  Functional depemdency is a relationship that exists between two attributes such that the value of one of these attributes is uniquely determined by the value of the other. That is for two attributez X and Y X is functionally dependent on Y : (X->Y) if and only if unique values of Y determine unique values of 
